So to review, we first talked
about manual memory management.
So what you're explicitly calling
dealloc like you wouldn't see.
And now the downsides of this
are you can get use after freeze,
you can get double freeze.
It's a potential source
of security problems.
It's really just like something
that absolutely does work, but
it's pretty error prone and
the stakes can be pretty high.
These are really nasty bugs.
We don't wanna deal with them.
We really wanna have
automatic memory management.
But, we talked about that
automatic memory management and
garbage collected languages, you have
to deal with garbage collection pauses.
You have to deal with the overhead
of the garbage collector itself.
Rust has these instead, it has these
pretty simple scope-based heuristics.
But they do have a number of edge cases
which we're starting to get into now.
But it is a way to do automatic memory
management without the overhead of a GC.
And this is exactly how Rust is
able to be competitive with C and
C++ in terms of performance cuz they
don't have garbage collectors either.
While still having the ergonomics of
more like a garbage collected language,
like, Python, JavaScript and
so on and so forth.
Now we can already start to see the way
in which it's different from a garbage
collected language, which is you have
this new category of compile time errors.
That can happen when the compiler says,
if I were to follow my heuristics,
I would accidentally give you
a use after free or a double free.
I don't wanna do that to you,
so therefore,
instead I'm gonna give you an error.
And I'm gonna to ask you to rearrange your
program in a way such that the heuristics
will no longer cause a problem.
We talked about ownership,
which is the first of these sort of
three concepts that all have to do with
this automatic memory management, the next
two being borrowing and then lifetimes.
And this is basically where we see our
first category of compiler errors that
are designed to prevent
use-after-free errors.
Finally, we talked about cloning, which
is a beginner's best friend and Rust.
It's a way that you can temporarily
sacrifice some performance to just sort of
get past these compiler errors that
are gonna be unfamiliar at first.
So, as before, we have our main here.
And this, like I mentioned previously
is the exercise where we're going to
basically encounter
a use-after-move compiler error.
And we're gonna solve it
in two different ways.
So basically,
we've got a whole bunch of numbers here.
We've got some of nums,
which calls the sum function.
And we got here looking at some basically
some takes a vec of i64s, and it just
goes through and iterates over the numbers
and then just adds each of them to total.
We also have product which is the same
thing except that it multiplies
instead of adding.
And finally, we have average which
basically takes the length of the numbers
and then divides the sum of the numbers by
the length, so sum, product and average.
And all we're trying to do is, we're
trying to do something that would be in
most languages pretty straightforward,
which is called sum of the numbers.
Then call products on the same numbers and
then call average on the same numbers.
And as you might guess, this is going to
result in the same type of error that we
saw on the slides,
namely s use-after-move error.
Because when we pass numbers to each of
these things, it gets moved into there and
then those scopes take ownership of them.
And then automatically deallocate them
because they're not returning it.
So we're gonna use the two
techniques we talked about.
One is just calling .clone on numbers,
which is the quick and easy way.
But I encourage you to try
out the extra technique
of having these functions return a tuple.
So not just the i64 but also return
this vec again, so that the caller
can regain access to it and have it
get moved back into the caller scope.
And therefore, prevent the compiler
from trying to deallocate it.
And either of those are ways that
you can address the use-after-move.